# Building a Ubuntu Desktop Virtual Machine with VirtualBox

## Definitions
- **Host:** - The host machine is the machine you install VirtualBox on. This will be a Linux, Mac or Windows machine running directly on the machines hardware
- **Guest:** - The guest machine is the virtual machine


## Prerequisetes
- A computer with sufficient memory (see note below). 
- 


### What is sufficient memory?
It is difficult for me to give specific guidlines as I have always used VirtualBox on a mchine with 16 GB RAM. I did try to install it on a friends machine which was Windows 8 with 4 GB, but it was unusably too slow. How much memory you need depends on your operating system. If your host is Linux you can get by with less RAM than if your host is Windows. My suggestion is to work with the memory you have. If it turns-out you have insufficient memory, no harm done.

## Download Ubuntu 19.04 Desktop LTS
- Go to: https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop
- Click 'Download'
- Wait for the download to complete or, if you have the bandwidth, move on to the next step while it downloads.

## Install VirtualBox
### Ubuntu Host
- https://tecadmin.net/install-virtualbox-on-ubuntu-18-04/

### Wondows 10 Host
- https://websiteforstudents.com/installing-virtualbox-windows-10/

### Mac Host
- https://services.dartmouth.edu/TDClient/KB/ArticleDet?ID=71778



## Create the VM
- Machine > New
- **Name and operating system**
  - Name: something short and to the point
  - Machine Folder: the default is good
  - Type: Linux
  - Version: Ubuntu (64-bit)
  - Click Next
- **Memory Size**
  How much memory you allocate to the guest machine depends on how much memory you have on the host. With 16 GB on my host I allocate 6 GB to the guest. 4 GB is plenty for what we will be doing.
  - Enter the memory in MB (e.g., 6 * 1024 MB = 6144 or 6 GB)
  - Click Next
- **Hard disk**
  - Use the default: 'Create a virtual hard disk now'
  - Click Create
- **Hard disk file type**
  - Use the default: 'VDI (VirtualBox Disk Image'
- **Storeage and physical hard disk**

